[Music]
hey dude my name is Gilbert Gilbert the
great yeah
my name is dad's idea anyway today I'm
going on an epic journey through the
human body so you want to watch the trip
starts as the human heads to the office
lunch room opens his lunch box and finds
me in there what else has he got here a
turkey sandwich some yogurt hmm
I see he's taking a bite of his sandwich
oh no it's my turn he's puffed me into
his mouth oh it's go time gotta be
honest it's pretty wet and warm in here
the mouth is a gateway to the digestive
system that system is designed
specifically to transform food into
useful nutrients that keep you energized
and help yourselves grow and repair so
once you grab the first bite of whatever
you're eating you turn on the digestion
machine as you chew food is broken up
into pieces to make the process easier
saliva comes in handy as it mixes with
food and breaks it down even more that
way
your stomach doesn't have to digest
whole chunks of food by the way here's a
fun fact the amount of saliva you
produce in a year could fill two
medium-sized bathtubs almost a pool full
of drool wow it's really raining
spitting here oh whoa I better watch out
for these teeth wouldn't want to end up
like Turkey boy over there it's hard
since this guy is using his tongue to
roll food around in his mouth and toward
his deep I really don't feel like
becoming Jam today so I'm gonna just
bypass all this chewing down the chute
we go we're now heading into the throat
they also call it the pharynx Oh fork in
the road which way do I go
eeny meeny miny moe looks like this way
we must go hang on
oh I think I took a wrong turn why is
everything shaking
oh poor human is coughing like crazy
somebody give him a nice slap on the
back there we go coming back up whoo
sorry dude
whoo that was close almost ended up in
his lungs that wouldn't be very good all
right I'm back on the road so let's give
it another try
I've correctly turned into the
swallowing tube that goes by the
sophisticated name of esophagus I like
to call it the food chute but it's a lot
less Spacey than I imagined
I'm kind of getting squished in here oh
how do I keep going down oh I see the
muscles in the walls of this guy's
esophagus are squeezing behind me and
relaxing in front of me this is a
process called peristalsis and it's what
moves me through your digestive system a
couple of seconds later and we've now
reached the end of the tunnel there's a
muscle here that opens up to let food
into the stomach and keeps it from
coming back out into the esophagus it's
kind of like the TSA in a way hey I'm
just a tourist here sir please let me in
yay I've passed through the valve and
into the stomach it reminds me of a sack
and let me try those walls whoa that's a
strong one it's all muscle I'm not
surprised actually the stomach holds
mixes and grinds the food up into a mush
so it has to be pretty strong quite
honestly this doesn't look too oh my
what's that ah that burns like crazy oh
I got to get out of this stomach acid or
else I'll turn into liquid or paste like
turkey sandwich over there that's okay
I've come prepared I brought this
handy-dandy little device that'll encase
me in a protective bubble your food
usually doesn't have this but hey my gut
connections is classified I just have to
push this button the
now I can keep talking to you the whole
way instead of turning into grape jelly
next stop the small intestine this long
coiled sneaky organ is made up of three
sections when I say long I meet it if
you spread it out which I don't
recommend doing because you needed to be
coiled and inside of you you get a tube
that's over 20 feet in length yep
that's as long as a giraffe is tall all
stuffed into your insides
I must say it's pretty warm in here
almost feels like a tropical resort
except I'm in an ocean of bile oh yeah I
protected in my little bubble no worries
bile is crucial to digest fat and take
all the waste out of your blood so be
thankful your liver produces it your
pancreas also helps the process with
some good enzymes and that thing over
there that looks like a pear that's the
gall bladder it's located under the
liver and keeps bile in it until the
right moment comes man this thing really
is coiled huh I'm getting kind of dizzy
from the twists and turns but no going
back now these contracting intestinal
walls keep pushing me forward looks like
I'm already in the final section of the
small intestine and on to the next leg
of my journey belt large intestine also
known as the colon it's a muscular tube
that's five to six feet long pull the
phone do you hear that I'm not alone I'm
surrounded coming in closer it's it's
bacteria oh there's tons of them in here
oh is this person sick with some
intestinal parasite or something yeah
your intestines need good bacteria to
help them break down food vitamins and
nutrients so that your body can use them
some peeps hey what's that little dangly
thing over there at the entrance ah that
must be the appendix it doesn't do much
besides how's bacteria that might be
released into the gut it's also got some
tissues that are useful for your immune
system but it's mostly a useless little
thing so people can still live without
hey if your appendix gets inflamed a
doctor will cut it out of you really
looks like this guy still has his good
for you anyway we're now in the large
intestine and I'm glad it's a little
roomier in here had I not grabbed my
fancy top-secret protective bubble I'd
be talking to you now as a liquidy
yellowish mush of waste as these muscle
contractions push me through the colon
I'd have all the water sucked out of me
my final form stool yep whoo doodoo
number two whatever you like to call it
is formed in the large intestine still
loads of bacteria all over the place
they're really hard at work eh well
there can't be too little or too many
otherwise you'd have digestive problems
like food intolerances they also play a
major role in your immunity and that's
why you have trillions of them in your
gut hey keep up the good work guys
I'm on my way through the left calling
when it gets too full of stool it
decides to dump it all into the rectum
because it can't hold it all by itself
it usually takes about 36 hours for
what's left of your food not much now
just waste to reach this point but I've
been speeding through this journey
because I've got some other great stuff
to do so let's head to the rectum
already Geronimo the rectum is a strait
chamber that's about 8 inches long it
has special sensors like this one or
that one there that let you know and
there's something you should get rid of
they send a signal to the brain when
stool or gas want to make their exit
that's about the time when a thought
pops up in your brain oh gotta go to the
bathroom if the moment is right for you
that is you find a toilet the sphincters
relax and tada your stool makes its exit
buh-bye pizza from yesterday's breakfast
what no one else here has cold pizza for
breakfast all right and let me know down
in the comments what your typical
breakfast looks like anyway when the
moment isn't exactly right to release
stool just yet your sphincters contract
those rectum sensors help to so that the
urge to release its contents disappears
for a while
you should be happy when your recommend
sphincters are working hard they keep
stuff in when the timing isn't good like
when you're driving to work on a date
getting groceries sleeping but when you
just can't resist the urge anymore the
external sphincter gives you a couple
more minutes or however long you need
until you make it to the bathroom well
not sure if the human is ready but I'd
really like to go now maybe I can
Hotwire these sensors to make my Great
Escape oh yeah this guy is at work isn't
it
this is gonna be awkward of course
normal food doesn't leave your body in
such a graceful manner you wouldn't even
recognize what was what but as for me
Gilbert the grape I still have important
things to do today
so hey Bob what's hit the John I'm out
of here
bye well that was different
hey if you learn something new today
then give the video a like and share it
with a friend and here are some other
cool videos I think you'll enjoy just
click to the left or right and remember
stay on the bright side of life
[Music]